This lecture's going to be about R
markdown.
It's going to be a very short and just
description of what this is, because I
talk about it in a little bit more detail
when I talk about reproducible research.
So the basic idea behind R markdown is
that you want to have R code
integrated with a simple language that can
be used to kind of create documents.
And so the coupling is going to be the R
language with the markdown language.
So, first of all, what is markdown?
So markdown is a very simple kind of
markup language,
kind of play, a play on the word markup
language.
And the idea is that the, the mark,
markdown is
designed to help you focus on actually
writing things, right.
So when you think about it, if you're
experienced with languages like HTML or La
Tec, or, or some of these other, or XML,
or some of these other things.
you know, one of the things that you
notice
that you spend a lot of time thinking
about
the formatting, and, and thinking about
everything else
except the actual content that you're
trying to produce.
And so the basic philosophy behind
markdown is say, is to
create a language that allows writers to,
to do writing basically.
Right?
And so if you look at markdown it looks
very different from other
types of, of kind of markup languages like
XML or HTML or LATEC.
And so there are just very simple,
very minimal, kind of intuitive formatting
elements things
like boldface and, and and sections and
lists.
And so be kinds of things that you would
typically need in
a basic document but not the very fancy
things that you might have.
But one of advantages of markdown is that
it, you can insert kind of arbitrary HTML
elements.
So if you are familiar with HTML and you
want something that's specific or
particular, and there isn't a basic
markdown
formatting element for it, you can just
put some HTML in, in the worst-case
scenario.
So one of the nice things about markdown
is, it's easily converted into HTML.
There are tool chains out there that'll
take markdown, and in fact
convert it into many different formats,
HTML just being one of them.
So you can let a lot of information at the
website of, of John Gruber, where he has a
lot
of documentation for markdown, and a
little bit of background
on kind of how, how this, how this project
evolved.
So, that was markdown.
What is R markdown?
So R markdown is basically the coupling of
R code in a markdown document.
So, the idea is that if you want to embed
R
code, in a document that's written in
markdown, you use R markdown.
And the, the basic idea is that this, it's
going to look a
lot like a standard R mark, I'm sorry, a
standard markdown document.
But there's
going to be R code sprinkled in, in, in
what are called code chunks.
And the code chunks'll be denoted by a
special formatting
tags, which I'll show you in a little, in
a minute.
So when you integrate R code with markdown
that's an
R markdown document, typically has the r m
d extension.
And so the nice thing about using R
markdown is it
allows you to insert essentially live R
code into a markdown document.
So when you process the markdown document
to create your HTML or your PDF ultimate
you know, format, um,you
can evaluate the r code in as part of the
processing for markdown.
And so, so you know that the code in the
document if you're trying to demonstrate
a tool, or you're trying, you know maybe
show some data or whatever it would be.
You know, that the code works in the
document because in
order for a document to be produced in the
first place the
code had to be executed and evaluated and
run.
And so everything in the document, any
code that
you see in a document, you know will work.
Because it had to, it had to work to
create the document.
So that's one nice thing about being able
to embed live R code in a document
is that you can ensure a, a, some, a
certain level of validity of the R code.
So the basic idea is the, you know, you
evaluate R code it,
the, the results of the R code is, is
inserted into the markdown document.
And mark, R markdown is a core
tool in what's known as literate
statistical programming.
And we'll talk about that a little,
much more when we talk about reproducible
research.
But for now, it's important just to think
of R
markdown as a way to put R code in a
document.
So you can evaluate R markdown documents
using the knitr package in R.
So the knitr has a, knitr essentially
reads an R markdown file,
evaluates all the R code in it, it kind of
sticks in
the results of the R code, and then writes
out a Markdown file.
Now, that Markdown file can be converted
into HTML using the markdown package in R.
And so there's a bit, so there's a kind of
extra step of the pipeline here.
If you were just going to write markdown
you could just
convert that to HTML right away, but if
you're going to
write R markdown, then you need to use
something like
knitr, to kind of evaluate the R code,
create the markdown document,
and then, bring it to an HTML file.
So the knitr package and the mark down
package are, are important for this.
Any basic text editor can be used to
create a markdown document, or R markdown
document.
That's one of the nice features of this
type of markup
language is that you don't need any fancy
editors to visualize what
you're trying write, you can just use any
old text editor
and it will be fine; you don't need any
special editing tools.
So the, the basic workflow that you're
going to use if you
write in R markdown is, R, you write in
an, you kind,
your basic, your core document is an R
markdown file, so
it has markdown formatting elements and it
has R code in it.
Then you convert that into a markdown file
using the knitr package,
and then you take that markdown file,
which is essentially an intermediate file
that you're, you're not going to edit this
file, and you would take
that markdown file, and you convert it to
HTML using the markdown package.
And then HTML is kind of what you would
view in your browser or other viewer.
So the, the, now, the key elements of all
this is that you don't, you never edit the
intermediate or final products, so you
never edit the
markdown file and you never edit the HTML
file.
The only file that you're ever going to
edit is the R markdown
file which has the kind of original R code
and original markdown in it.
The whole workflow is very easily managed,
if you're using something like R Studio.
R Studio has knitr and markdown integrated
into it and furthermore
even has a little web browser built in so
you can actually
view the final product, if you're using R
Studio, and I'll
show a little demonstration of how to do
that in R Studio.
and, and just as one very quick example,
the slides that
you're looking at right now they were
written in R markdown.
Of course, there's no R code in here, so
it's, it's more or less just
plain markdown, but I built these slides
using the slidify package which calls
knitr and
the markdown packages, to convert them
into HTML.
So you can, there's a lot of flexibility
when
you're using a format formatting language
like R markdown
or just markdown and you can, because you
can
convert them to a lot of different other
presentation styles.